Hi there and welcome to this intermediate react native course
. So in this course we are going to use
this course website that you can access and basically the
course materials are available from here. Um so you
can follow along and you can also reference things.
Um, if you miss what I was typing,
you can use light or dark mode. So I'm
going to go for dark mode just to match all
my editors. And if we go to course,
so we got a course structure here. And basically
the format will be, I'm going to go through
this course page and we're going to build a react
native app together. So my name is Kati Kremlin
. I am a principal engineer at formidable and I
mostly build things using JavaScript So these days I mostly
used react native and graph gail. I've been doing
web development in react since 2015 and react native since
2017. And I've been super fortunate to have been
involved in several exciting into and react native projects over
the years and I'm really excited to share some of
the things I've learned along the way. So this
course is going to be an intermediate react native course
. So it's going to expect you to know the
basics already in particular. You should already be familiar
with Vue text, touchable opacity, flat list and
scroll view. You should already know how to style
your components using style sheets and you should have an
idea on how to use stack navigator in react navigation
. We also expect you to be able to use
the basic react hooks. so the U. S
. State use effect and use callback in this course
we are not going to be used. Expert will
use plain react native. That means we're going fully
native and you need to build the actual app on
your device. That means if you want to build
an IOS app, you will also need to use
a Mac device Aside from that restriction, please feel
free to follow along with android or IOS or of
course both. I myself will be using this code
for my code editor and iphone 12 simulator and an
android pixel five emulated throughout throughout the course. Usually
at the end of the page but sometimes in the
middle you'll see these blue balance and this is basically
a link to a commit for the demo app that
we're going to be building. So if you want
to check your work or you want to make sure
that you're in the right place. Just reference these
commits and you'll see the actual code that's used in
the demos. Now look at what we're going to
be building. We are basically going to be building
this mood app so you can record your mood throughout
the day. So we have a list of emojis
where you can pick our moods notice we have a
little animation on the button, then we have a
tab layout with the history tabs so we can look
at past moods in our history. We can delete
the moods from from the list. And also we
have implemented, we will implement the swipe to delete
. And on the last time we have a little
pie chart for the ratio of moves that we're going
to be using. Let's start by creating a new
project. So let's open the terminal and we want
to copy this MPX command. So this is a
wreck native in IT commands that will create an app
called mood tracker and it's using the react native TypeScript
template. Yeah. Yeah. So this is going
to take a little while because what it does is
it downloads the template then it does yarn install to
install all your JavaScript dependencies. And then it also
does pod install to install all the IOS dependencies if
you're building on a Mac. So this is why
it takes a little while for this command to run
. So I already have my tracker in this directory
so I'm going to delete it and run this again
. Okay, we're done. Okay? So whenever
you start in your project and this is something I
always do. So even if you're not sharing it
with anyone, even if it's just for yourself or
just like a demo thing that you're trying out,
still make it into a Git repository. So you
just get in it, get at everything and get
commit. Sure, commit and the reason I always
do that. Is that anything that I add later
? I will always know exactly what I've added because
you can look at the git diff and whenever you
get to a point where things are working, just
commit it because if you in the future you add
something and you know it happens a lot in react
native because if you mess with the native dependencies on
X code or under a studio you change something,
you don't know where it changed it. It's just
good to have a state to get back to.
So always do this. All right. So let's
now open this in X code. So come on
space X code. So we'll do the irish project
first. And so in X code you choose open
a project or file and then go to wherever you're
, you initialize your project. So mine is here
and then open the IOS directory. So this is
this is very important. So if you go inside
the IOS directory, you actually have two of these
files, you have a X code project and a
workspace and one of these doesn't recognize pods. So
just to like avoid the possibility of that issue happening
, just click analyze directory and hit open and I
will open the correct project. So one thing that
we, we didn't have to do because we're using
a template is installing dependencies but I just want to
run you through how dependencies work. For example,
if you were using a project but working on a
project with a team. So there are two kinds
of dependencies in playing react native you have your JavaScript
dependencies and you have your native dependencies. So to
install the JavaScript dependencies, you simply run yarn or
NPM install. So you'll be familiar with that already
. But because we are now building a native app
, we don't just have the JavaScript dependencies to worry
about. We also need to install the native dependencies
. So if you were using X ray before expert
managed all that for you, They chose, they
picked and chose the native dependencies that they think you
might use and they handle that. But now that
we are building our own app, we need to
also install the native dependencies. So on IOS,
the build dependencies in react native and managed using coca
pots or pots for shorts and you can think of
cocoa pods kind of like the IOS version of NPM
and the way it works is quite similar as well
. So to install the native IOS dependencies, we
need to run the install commands in the projects IOS
director. So you'll see it into IOS and run
pod install, we'll be doing this a lot better
of course because we're using a lot of native native
libraries. What dependencies work very similar to the arctic
dependencies. So in javascript you have a package,
Jason which is the list of dependencies on. In
parts, you have a pot file which is the
list of your dependencies in IOS, you have a
young lock or an NPM lock, which is the
all the generated file that records exactly which version.
Or it depends if you're using in cocoa pods,
you have a pot fire log, which does the
same. And finally, on in geological dependencies,
you have node modules, which is the like project
dependencies, which you don't check in to get an
equivalently on IOS, you have opposed directory that works
the same way.